The compound score is computed by summing the valence scores of each word in the lexicon, 
adjusted according to the rules, and then normalized to be between -1 (most extreme negative) and 
+1 (most extreme positive). This is the most useful metric if you want a single unidimensional measure of 
sentiment for a given sentence. Calling it a 'normalized, weighted composite score' is accurate.

It is also useful for researchers who would like to set standardized thresholds for classifying sentences as 
either positive, neutral, or negative. Typical threshold values (used in the literature cited on this page) are:

    positive sentiment: compound score >= 0.05
    neutral sentiment: (compound score > -0.05) and (compound score < 0.05)
    negative sentiment: compound score <= -0.05
NOTE: The compound score is the one most commonly used for sentiment analysis by most researchers, including the authors.

The pos, neu, and neg scores are ratios for proportions of text that fall in each category 
    (so these should all add up to be 1... or close to it with float operation). 
    These are the most useful metrics if you want to analyze the context & presentation of how sentiment is 
    conveyed or embedded in rhetoric for a given sentence. For example, different writing styles may embed 
    strongly positive or negative sentiment within varying proportions of neutral text -- i.e., some writing styles 
    may reflect a penchant for strongly flavored rhetoric, whereas other styles may use a great deal of neutral 
    text while still conveying a similar overall (compound) sentiment. As another example: researchers analyzing 
    information presentation in journalistic or editorical news might desire to establish whether the proportions 
    of text (associated with a topic or named entity, for example) are balanced with similar amounts of positively 
    and negatively framed text versus being "biased" towards one polarity or the other for the topic/entity.

IMPORTANTLY: these proportions represent the "raw categorization" of each lexical item 
(e.g., words, emoticons/emojis, or initialisms) into positve, negative, or neutral classes; 
they do not account for the VADER rule-based enhancements such as word-order sensitivity for sentiment-laden 
multi-word phrases, degree modifiers, word-shape amplifiers, punctuation amplifiers, negation polarity switches, 
or contrastive conjunction sensitivity.